If you're going to work on code projects,
maybe in a company or with some friends,
it's very likely that you're going to use some
kind of code versioning system, to keep track of
your code and to allow you to collaborate
with other people on the same code base.
And there's different solutions for this and one
is the GIT system. So GIT you can imagine, like
in its very basic functionality, like a backup
system, a cloud-based backup system. Similar
to like google drive or dropbox. Where you upload
your files and if you edit a file, there's a new
version created of that file. And through an
interface you can look into the older versions
of your files. This is basically what GIT is. Of
course GIT has a lot more functionality especially
collaboration features, that allow multiple people
to work on the same files, but in its very basic
functionality, you can imagine it like a
backup system. And so there's different
providers that allow you to use the GIT system.
We are going to use GitHub in this seminar.
And you can create a free account on GitHub
and use it for your own personal projects.
And if you have an account in one of these
systems, you organize your projects in so
called repositories. Each project is a repository
in these systems and inside the repository you
can have folders and files, that you then can
edit and modify. And as other backup systems,
the idea here is that you have a cloud version,
where you keep track of all the changes.
And then you have a local version, a copy of the
cloud version, that you use for actual editing.
You can also easily work offline without having
any access to the cloud and then as soon as you
go online, you can send your changes to the cloud
again. These repos, the short form for repository,
are living in the cloud in a structure,
like infrastructure like GitHub.
And when you want to have a copy of the online
version on your local machine, then the command
for this is called "cloning" a repository.
Through cloning you get a local copy of the
online project, but you can do more on GitHub
you can also "fork" a project from someone else
and create a copy project in your own account.
This allows you then to modify this project and
if you're working on a big open source project
where there are a lot of different collaborators,
you can even send the changes you've done to
your copy, back to the original repository.
And of course this forked project you can also
clone and work on it on your local machine.
How does it work creating these changes and
switching between the online and local version.
Imagine we have created a copy of a repository on
our local machine. Now we have folders and files
that we can modify. If there is a change
in the online version, so somebody else for
example changed the file and you want to get this
change into your local version of the repository.
Then the command is called "pull". Through pulling
we get all the changes from the online repository
into our local version. So that we can work
on the latest versions of our repository.
Then you start working on the files locally
and you do some file changes and you have a
new version on your own machine. What's then
happening is that we are collecting all the
changes that we did into a so-called "commit".
The idea behind commits is to create some kind of
system for yourself to collect changes,
so that you later on easily can find the
different versions. For example let's say you have
created a new navigation system for your website,
so this commit you would call "new navigation
system". You collect all these changes in these
commit packages. You give them names
that you can later on identify them
and now we need to send those commits back to the
cloud. And this command is called "push". We push
our commits to the cloud and you can do multiple
commits and keep them all on your local machine
before you then push them to the cloud. So
you don't need to push them all the time
and you can also do multiple versions on your
local machine that are not yet pushed to the
cloud. Again it works really like a versioning
system that allows you later on to switch back to
certain changes that you did in previous commits.
You can easily move back to a previous version.
A side note: the versioning system is
primarily developed for text-based files,
so code works really great in git. But
for example images are not that easy,
so you can commit as many images as you want,
but for example if you just change a few pixels
you cannot see this single individual individual
change, but instead you will see okay there is a
new version of this image committed. Other
like in code, in code you can actually see
each individual word each individual line that
has been edited in each individual commit.
And so it's a lot easier to track the
changes in text files than in images.
And to use the GIT system independent of what
kind of provider you're using, there are different
interfaces you can use. In the seminar we will
primarily use GitHub Desktop, because it's the
easiest way to get started with GitHub. You
can get it for free on the GitHub website.
You can use the GitHub Desktop application also
on other providers and other infrastructures not
only the GitHub infrastructure. I will also
upload a video how to use GitHub through
the visual studio code interface, our code
editor. Because this makes it a lot faster,
because you don't need to switch to another
application. But do it in one application.
As you are progressing and getting more advanced
in GIT use, the command line is probably at some
point the solution to switch to. Through the
command line you have a lot more control,
a lot more different commands you can
use to work with the GIT infrastructures.